Document new experiments methodology (#10217)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/experiments/trends-count-statistics.mdx

---

> title: Statistical methodology for count trend experiments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Statistical methodology for count trend metrics
```

## What is a Gamma-Poisson model?

Imagine you run a pizza shop and want to know how many slices a customer typically orders. Some days customers might order 1 slice, others 3 slices, and occasionally someone might order 6 slices! This kind of count data (1, 2, 3, etc.) follows what's called a **Poisson distribution**.

The Poisson distribution has one key number: the average rate. In our pizza example, maybe it's 2.5 slices per customer. But here's the catch - we don't know the true rate for sure. We only have our observations to guess from.

This is where the **Gamma distribution** comes in. It helps us model our uncertainty about the true rate:

- When we have very little data, the Gamma distribution is wide, saying "hey, the true rate could be anywhere in this broad range".
- As we collect more data, the Gamma distribution gets narrower, saying "we're getting more confident about what the true rate is".

> So when we say we're using a Gamma-Poisson model for experiments, we're:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So when we say we're using a Gamma-Poisson model for count metrics, we're:
```
